$Revision$


=pod

Z<>

=head1 CREDITS

Z<>

This is where I thank people who have contributed things to MiG.  I hope I
haven't left anyone out, but if I have, please let me know.

Fadel (fadel@fee.unicamp.br), for contributing code which eventually
turned into the C<-c> option of the F<mkGallery> script, and for the
Portugese language translation.

Jeff Lambert (jeffx@ican.net), for contributing code to make a
"phpNuke Compatible" mode for folks wanting to merge MiG into a phpNuke
site - http://www.phpnuke.org/ .  Jeff also found a number of nagging
little bugs in MiG which have been fixed.

Russ McClay (mcclay@taolodge.com.tw), for finding the strange table
format problem where you would see a horizontal line above and to the left
side of the screen.  Fixing this fixed another strange bug where sometimes
things weren't centered.

Adam Monsen (meonkeys@hotmail.com), for noticing and reporting the
".." security hole.

BUL (burckhard@loeh.cx), for going through lots of headache working
out the kinks for MiG users who are running on a Windows platform, and for
the German translation.

Jevin Maltais (jevin@techie.com) and Brian Palik (bpalik@elitepub.com), for
inspiring the eminently useful C<#include> feature of templates.

Artem G. Abanov (aga@andrey.physics.wisc.edu), for writing the
contrib script F<migPutCommentInFile>.

Jaap Geurts (j.geurts@tech.nhl.nl), for contributing a change to make
F<mkGallery> do things in sorted order.

Jon Anhold (jon@snoopy.net), for contributing code which turned into
the C<$suppressImageInfo> option.

jérôme ROUER (CCFRANCE.bibli@bigpond.com.kh), for the French
translation set.

Joffer aka Christopher Thorjussen (joffer@online.no), for the
Norwegian translation set.

Jani Mikkonen (jani@mikkonen.org), for the Finnish translation set.

Eugen Dedu (dedu@ese-metz.fr) for the Romanian translation set.

Anatoly Ropotov (lynx@rulez.lv) for the Russian translations.

Dogan Sariguzel (dogan@procam.com.tr) for the Turkish translation.

Sebastian Djupsjöbacka (basse@iki.fi) for the Swedish translation.

Mikkel Mondrup Kristensen (hh00d-mmk@uv.horshs.dk) for the Danish
translation.

Alessandro Poletto (pollok@toth.it) for the original Italian translation.

Juro Polak (polak@axon.sk) for the Slovak translation.

Erik@Braindisorder.org for the Dutch translation.

JMN <umjumasa@terra.es> for an update to the Spanish translation.

Göran Fröjdh <goran@frojdh.com> for the code on which the pop-up window
feature is based.

Martin <martvin@box43.pl> for the Polish translation.

Marco Ermini <markoer@firenze.linux.it> for the improved Italian
translation.

A special note to recognize Matthias Wendel, author of the F<jhead>
utility, which is bundled with MiG.

And of course, to Rasmus Lerdorf and all of the other fine folks who have
worked so hard to make PHP available in the first place.

=cut

