$Revision$


=pod

Z<>

=head1 MIG FEATURES

Z<>

Requires only PHP.  Will run on Windows, Unix, any web server that can
run PHP scripts.

"Drop and Go" gallery addition.  Just create a directory and put some
images in it (create thumbnails, if you want), and you're done.

Any number of folders and subfolders can be used.

Each image can have a comment attached (so can folders).

Easy navigation system to move around the folder tree as well as going
from one image to the next or previous image in the same folder.

Plug-in mode for PHP-Nuke users.

Scripts are included to create thumbnail images, extract embedded
comments from images.

Single configuration file for all site-wide options.

Thumbnails can be a single type (such as GIF) regardless of what the
actual images are (JPG, GIF, PNG, etc...).

Thumbnails can be in the same directory, or in a special thumbnail
subdirectory.

Page layout is template-based so you can modify the look and feel of your
gallery.  A generic template is provided, but you can override it on a
per-folder basis if desired.

Folders and/or images can be marked as "hidden" to keep them away from
prying eyes.

Folders can be password-protected for extra protection.

Items can be sorted according to your tastes (or left alone will be
sorted alphabetically).

Thumbnails can be suppressed altogether for people who don't care to use
them.

Support for multiple languages exists (the choice of languages is limited
to what people have volunteered to translate for me).  Currently available
are English, French, German, Norwegian, Portugese, Finnish, Romanian,
Russian (Windows-1251 and KOI8-R), Turkish, Swedish, Danish, Italian,
Spanish, Slovak and Dutch.

"jump" tags can be used to have shorter URLs going to specific folders.

Thumbnails have the image comment as an ALT tag so hovering over a
thumbnail can show the associated comment.  This behavior can be turned
off optionally.

A file-include system as a part of the template system so you can include
your own files in MiG templates (HTML, PHP, plain text, etc).

Each folder in a folder list can have its own icon if desired - or it will
use the default (images/folder.gif).

The number of images in a directory can be displayed next to the directory,
in a folder list.

=cut

