$Revision$


=pod

Z<>

=head1 Installing MIG without unix shell access (i.e. via FTP)

Z<>

This document tries to explain how to install Mig by hand (for people with
FTP access only, not shell access, to their web server).

1. Unpack the distribution.  If you're on a Unix or Linux system you can
do this with the command:

    tar xvfz mig-VERSION.tar.gz

Where "VERSION" is the version (such as "1.2.3").  If you're on a Windows
system, try Winzip at http://www.winzip.com/

2. Create a directory on the server to place your Mig installation in (or
if you are upgrading, just know where the current installation is).  I'll
use F</www/site.com/htdocs/gallery> as an example in this document, but you
can put it anywhere you want as long as you know your web server can find
the files there.

3. Copy the F<index.php>, F<funcs.php> and F<lang.php> file to your
server's new Mig directory.  This document assumes .php as the extension
your web server uses to recognize PHP files.  If that isn't the case then
rename F<index.php> to F<index.php3> (or whatever extension is
appropriate).  Do NOT rename the other PHP files (their names are hardcoded
into the program)!

4. Create the subdirectories C<images> and C<templates> (i.e.
F</www/site.com/htdocs/gallery/images> and
F</www/site.com/htdocs/gallery/templates>), and copy the files in the
F<images> and F<templates> subdirectories to those directories,
respectively.

5. Create subdirectory C<albums> (i.e.
F</www/site.com/htdocs/gallery/albums>).  This is where your albums will
live.  If you want to install the example gallery, copy the
F<Example_Gallery> folder into the albums folder you just created.
(Installing the example gallery is optional)

6. Copy the F<config.php.default> file to F<config.php> in your Mig directory.
Edit it to taste.  If you are upgrading, you may not need to do this (just
see if there's anything new in F<config.php.default> and update your existing
F<config.php>).

7. Start putting your images in the F<albums> subdirectory (i.e.
F</www/site.com/htdocs/gallery/albums>) and there you have it.

8. If you are copying over any of the files in the F<util> subdirectory, or
the F<install.sh> file, make sure you send those things over in ASCII mode;
if you send them in BINARY mode they may not work correctly.  BINARY mode
should be fine for all of the other files in Mig.

=cut

