$Revision$


=pod

Z<>

=head1 Mig - A general purpose photo gallery management system

Z<>

Copyright 2000-2002 Daniel M. Lowe (dan@tangledhelix.com)

=head2 LICENSE INFORMATION

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.

A copy of the GPL can be found at http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html
or in the file F<docs/LICENSE>.

=head2 REQUIREMENTS

A web server which supports PHP.  PHP3 or PHP4 should work.  Windows users
will be better off upgrading to the latest version of PHP4.

The F<mkGallery> utility requires Perl and ImageMagick.  See
F<docs/Utilities.txt> for more information.  ImageMagick is not
required to use Mig itself; it is only required if you want to use
F<mkGallery> to create thumbnail images.

If you wish to extract embedded comments from JPEG files, you will also
need a C compiler (such as gcc) in order to build the (included) F<jhead>
utility.  (see F<docs/Utilites.txt>)

=head2 INSTALLATION

Note: there are a lot of files in the F<docs> subdirectory.  For a basic
installation, all you really have to read is F<INSTALL>.  The others are
informative and you ought to read them to learn more about what you can do,
but they're not required reading just to install Mig and get it working.
You do need to read at least F<INSTALL>.

For those who prefer HTML, there are HTML versions of all of the documents
in the F<docs/html> directory.

Windows users should additionally refer to F<docs/Windows.txt> for
installation information.

PHP-Nuke users should read F<docs/phpNuke.txt> for more information.

It's also a good idea to read F<docs/CHANGELOG> to see what has changed
recently, or just to get an idea of what Mig can do and what its pitfalls
might be.

=head2 MAILING LISTS

There are two mailing lists related to Mig.  Visit the URLs below if
you wish to subscribe.  Both lists are currently fairly low-traffic.

mig-announce is an announcements-only list.  New versions and so forth are
announced on this list.

    http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/mig-announce

mig-users is a general discussion list.  Any mig-related topic can be
discussed on this list.  Note also that I typically send announcements
here, so if you subscribe to mig-users you don't necessarily have to
subscribe to mig-announce as well (but you can if you want to).

    http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/mig-users

=head2 REPORTING BUGS

You can report bugs in one of two ways.  The first way is to submit a bug
report on the Mig project page at

    http://sourceforge.net/projects/mig/

The second is to send an email to dan@tangledhelix.com

=head2 WISH LIST

You can submit items to the wish list in one of two ways.  The first way is
to submit a Feature Request on the Mig project page at

    http://sourceforge.net/projects/mig/

The second is to send an email to dan@tangledhelix.com

=cut

