$Id$

=pod

Z<>

=head2 Using MiG under Windows

I haven't tested MiG using an IIS system.  I don't have an NT box handy,
and don't want to :-)  But I have tested it using Personal Web Server under
Windows98 on my laptop.  It worked out of the box using PWS 4.0 with PHP4.

I installed PWS 4.0 using all of the default settings.

I installed PHP based on these directions:

    http://www.php.net/manual/install-windows95-nt.php

After the PHP install, I dropped MiG onto the system and it worked with no
changes whatsoever.  You will need to tell your web server that the folder
you stick MiG into has "execute" permission, though.  See the documentation
for your web server on how to do this.  You may also have to tell the web
server to use F<index.php> as one of the default document names for a given
directory.

Apache for Windows is a different story - MiG just doesn't seem to work in
that environment at all.  At least not for me (Apache + PHP from the
PHPTriad package under Windows ME).

Another user, Pat Moore, reported success using PHPTriad under Windows 98.
So I don't know what the difference between those two installs is, but try
it for yourself and see how you fare.

If you find your results are different, please drop an email to let me know
at mig-bugs@tangledhelix.com.

(I know of at least one person using MiG in a Win2000/IIS5 environment.
They had problems until they upgraded to PHP 4.0.2, so my recommendation is
that you should use PHP 4.0.2 or the latest verion of PHP if you are trying
to use MiG under Windows.)

=head2 Windows Installation

Windows users will need to modify the install directions a bit.  Read over
F<docs/INSTALL> to get the general idea.  However, instead of using the
F<install.sh> script, you will want to do this:

1. Instead of using gzip and tar, unpack the archive using Winzip or
similar.  Winzip should know how to handle .tar.gz files.  You can
find Winzip at http://www.winzip.com/

2. Create a directory to place your MiG installation in (or if you are
upgrading, just know where the current installation is).  I'll use
F<C:\Mig> as an example in this document, but you can put it anywhere you
want as long as you know how to make your web server look there for the
files.

3. Copy the F<index.php>, F<funcs.php> and F<lang.php> file to your Mig
directory.  This document assumes .php as the extension your web server
uses to recognize PHP files.  If that isn't the case then rename
F<index.php> to F<index.php3> (or whatever extension is appropriate).  Do
NOT rename the other PHP files (their names are hardcoded into the
program)!

4. Create the subdirectories C<images> and C<templates> (i.e.
F<C:\Mig\Images> and F<C:\Mig\Templates>), and copy the files in the
F<images> and F<templates> subdirectories to those directories,
respectively.

5. Create subdirectory C<albums> (i.e. F<C:\Mig\Albums>).  This is where
your albums will live.  If you want to install the example gallery, drag
the F<Example_Gallery> folder into the albums folder you just created.
Installing the example gallery is optional.

6. Make sure you don't copy over your photo files, please.  I can't warrant
that won't happen, because I've seen some really odd things happen when
dragging files and folders around in Windows Explorer.  Please be
careful, and doing a backup first wouldn't hurt either.

7. Copy the F<mig.cfg.default> file to F<mig.cfg> in your Mig directory.
Edit it to taste.  If you are upgrading, you may not need to do this (just
see if there's anything new in F<mig.cfg.default> and update your existing
F<mig.cfg>).

8. Start putting your images in the F<albums> subdirectory (i.e.
F<C:\Mig\Albums>) and there you have it.

=head2 Miscellaneous Notes

I'm told by a user in Germany that MiG works under Windows NT and IIS.
It seems that you'd be well served to upgrade to the latest version of PHP
though, so if you're using Windows, please upgrade to the most recent
version of PHP.  You can find it at http://www.php.net/

I'm also told by this same user that having a comma in a filename or
directory name causes trouble on their Windows platform (although I have
had no problems with same under Linux, FreeBSD or Solaris).  So be aware of
that.  Other special characters may not work either.  It might be safest to
just use alphabetics, numbers and things like underscore and hyphen.
Remember that an underscore will be shown as a space in folder names, so as
far as the folder names go, an underscore is equivalent to a space as far
as MiG is concerned (in folder names, anyway).

=cut

