=pod

=head2 Credits

This is where I thank people who have contributed things to Mig.  I hope I
haven't left anyone out, but if I have, please let me know.  This list
is in reverse chronological order - newer entries are nearer the top
(except the first two which are always at the top).

A huge thanks to Rasmus Lerdorf and all of the other fine folks who have
worked so hard to make PHP available in the first place.  PHP programmers
truly stand on the shoulders of giants.

A special note to recognize Matthias Wendel, author of the F<jhead>
utility, which is bundled with Mig.

Dirk Haun (dirk at haun-online.de) for patches that enabled Geeklog
compatibility.

Steve Strong (s.strong at ieee.org) for patches that became the
C<$useLargeImages> feature.

Belle Liu (belle at belleliu.com) for the Chinese big5 translation.

Marius Scurtescu (marius at scurtescu.com) for the Xoops integration patch.

Krzysztof Wojtas (krzysin at cyklon.chemia.pk.edu.pl) for the Polish
ISO-8859-2 translation.

Fabio Fioravanti (fioravanti at iasi.rm.cnr.it) for an updated Italian
translation.

Yannick MassE<eacute>, for an updated French translation.

H. Fox (mustang at 2advance.com) for the patches aimed at improving HTML
and XHTML compliance, and for removing a lot of the hard-coded HTML from
the PHP code, moving it into the templates where it belonged to begin with.

Masaru Onozawa (masy at webmasters.gr.jp) for the Japanese (ISO-2022-JP)
translation.

Jan Jasinski (jan at sps.ee) for contributing a patch to C<folderFrame()>
and for the Estonian translation.

Pawel Dylik (pawel at pavel.toya.net.pl) for contributing a patch which
resulted in the pagination of large galleries and the the random thumbnail
display in place of the generic folder icon.

Simon Wood (simon at mungewell.org) for contributing a patch to parse the
C<MaintAddr> keyword in F<mig.cf> files.

Martin (martvin at box43.pl) for the Polish translation.

GE<ouml>ran FrE<ouml>jdh (goran at frojdh.com) for the code on which the
pop-up window feature is based.

JMN (umjumasa at terra.es) for an update to the Spanish translation.

(erik at braindisorder.org) for the Dutch translation.

Juro Polak (polak at axon.sk) for the Slovak translation.

Alessandro Poletto (pollok at toth.it) and Marco Ermini
(markoer at firenze.linux.it) for their Italian translations.

Mikkel Mondrup Kristensen (hh00d-mmk at uv.horshs.dk) for the Danish
translation.

Sebastian DjupsjE<ouml>backa (basse at iki.fi) for the Swedish translation.

Dogan Sariguzel (dogan at procam.com.tr) for the Turkish translation.

Anatoly Ropotov (lynx at rulez.lv) for the Russian translations.

Eugen Dedu (dedu at ese-metz.fr) for the Romanian translation.

Jani Mikkonen (jani at mikkonen.org), for the Finnish translation.

Joffer aka Christopher Thorjussen (joffer at online.no), for the
Norwegian translation.

jE<eacute>rE<ocirc>me ROUER (CCFRANCE.bibli at bigpond.com.kh), for the
French translation.

Jon Anhold (jon at snoopy.net), for contributing code which turned into
the C<$suppressImageInfo> option.

Jaap Geurts (j.geurts at tech.nhl.nl), for contributing a patch to make
F<mkGallery.pl> do things in a sorted order.

Artem G. Abanov (aga at andrey.physics.wisc.edu), for writing the
script F<migPutCommentInFile> (available in the F<mig-contrib> package).

Jevin Maltais (jevin at techie.com) and Brian Palik (bpalik at elitepub.com),
for inspiring the C<#include> feature in the template parser.

BUL (burckhard at loeh.cx), for working out the kinks for Mig users who are
on a Windows platform, and for the German translation.

Adam Monsen (meonkeys at hotmail.com), for reporting the E<quot>..E<quot>
security hole.

Russ McClay (mcclay at taolodge.com.tw), for finding a strange table format
problem where a horizontal line above and to the left side of the table would
appear.  Fixing this fixed another strange bug where sometimes things
weren't centered.

Jeff Lambert (jeffx at ican.net), for contributing code to make a
PHP-Nuke compatibility mode for people wanting to merge Mig into
a PHP-Nuke site [ http://www.phpnuke.org/ ].  Jeff also found a number of
nagging little bugs in Mig which have been fixed.

Fadel (fadel at fee.unicamp.br), for contributing code which was the
basis for the C<-c> option of F<mkGallery.pl>, and for the Portugese
translation.

=cut

