=pod

$Id$

=head2 What Are Jump Tags and How Do They Work?

What is a jump tag?  Well, many people (including the author) didn't like
the really long URLs that Mig uses because it made it clumsy to paste them
into an email or a chat window.  However, changing them now would be
difficult to do and certainly not backward-compatible.

Jump tags were invented to address this problem.  Take this URL for
example:

    http://tangledhelix.com/gallery/index.php?pageType=folder&currDir=./Our%20House/Before%20We%20Redecorated

At 105 characters long, and having tons of URL-encoded C<%xx> entities
in it, it's not a pretty URL to have to send someone.  But here's what you
can do.  Add a line to your F<config.php> that adds to the jump map.

    $jumpMap['me'] = 'currdir=./Pictures_of_me';

That one goes to a folder at the root of your album called E<quot>Pictures
of meE<quot>.  To go to the above URL is a little more like this:

    $jumpMap['house'] = 'currDir=./Our%20House/Before%20We%20Redecorated';

See, all I did here was copy the value of C<currDir>.  Then you can give out
this URL instead:

    http://tangledhelix.com/gallery/?jump=house

Much smaller and nicer.  Imaging if you have albums four or five levels
deep (I know I do) and the URL gets pretty long.  Hopefully this will
address that trouble.

You can do this in one of two ways, too.  You can also use a URL like this:

    http://tangledhelix.com/gallery/index.php/house

Which avoids clumsy stuff like the ? in the URL and such.  It's a matter of
preference which one you use.  Note that with the second method you can't
shorten it like this, though:

    http://tangledhelix.com/gallery/house

Because the web server will look for that directory, not find it, and
return an error.  So you have that F<index.php> or F<index.php3> stuck in
there.

Granted, you have to maintain this mapping manually.  But, no one is
forcing you to use it, either...

This works with Apache web servers.  I don't know if it works with
anything else.  If you're running something other than Apache, let me
know how you fare with this feature.

=head2 Tips for Apache Users

Also see the E<quot>apacheE<quot> document which has some nifty
C<mod_rewrite> ideas to utilize shorter, simpler URLs.

=cut

