=pod

$Id$

=head2 PHP-Nuke, PostNuke, PHPWebSite and PHPWebThings compatibility

Mig can be configured to try to fit into PHP-Nuke, PostNuke, PHPWebSite
and PHPWebThings sites.  (For simplicity I refer to these collectively as
E<quot>NukeE<quot> sites in this document.)

Where to find information about these packages:

=over 4

=item PHP-Nuke            

http://www.phpnuke.org/ (tested with 5.5)

=item PostNuke

http://www.postnuke.com/ (tested with 0.714)

=item PHPWebSite

http://phpwebsite.appstate.edu/ (tested with 0.8.2)

=item PHPWebThings

http://www.phpdbform.com/ (tested with 0.41)

=back

Find your Nuke directory.  For example we'll say this is
F</www/mysite.com/nuke>

Create a subdirectory called F<mig> (i.e. F</www/mysite.com/nuke/mig>).
Put all the files into that folder as described in the F<install> document,
except for the following changes.

=over 4

=item 1.

Instead of the templates that the F<install> document mentions, copy over
the two files in F<templates/phpnuke>.  The HTML and CSS files Mig normally
uses are not used in Nuke mode.

=item 2.

Copy F<index.php> to your Nuke directory, not to the mig subdirectory.
And call it F<mig.php>, not F<index.php>.  Make sure you rename it before
you move it, so you do not over-write your Nuke site's F<index.php> file.

=item 3.

Copy F<config.php.default> to F<config.php> in your Mig subdirectory,
if you don't already have one there.  Make sure you do not copy
F<config.php> into your Nuke directory, since Nuke has its own file called
F<config.php> and you must be careful not to destroy it.

=item 4.

Edit Mig's F<config.php> and set C<$phpNukeCompatible> to TRUE.
Change C<$phpNukeRoot> to your Nuke directory (i.e.
F</www/mysite.com/nuke>) - not the Mig directory, but your Nuke directory.

(If you're using phpWebThings, you want instead to use the options
C<$phpWebThingsCompatible> and C<$phpWebThingsRoot>).

=back

That should be it - http://yournukesite.com/mig.php should work.

PostNuke, PHPWebSite and PHPWebThings users can add Mig to their menus like
anything else, just giving F<mig.php> as the target to load.

PHP-Nuke users need a little more work to get their module in place due to
PHP-Nuke's module system.  In your modules directory, create a new module,
such as F<Photo_Gallery> and put this in a file called F<index.php> inside
the module directory:

    <?php
        $baseHref = ereg_replace('/modules.*$', '', $PHP_SELF);
        header("Location: http://$SERVER_NAME$baseHref/mig.php");
    ?>

Making sure there are no blank lines before the first line or after the
last line!  If you don't want to cut and paste or type that in, you can
find this code in the F<phpnuke_module.php> file in the F<mig-contrib>
package also (available in the C<Extras> section on the web site).

=cut
