=pod

=head2 Compatibility with content management systems ("portals")

Mig can be configured to work with a number of content management systems,
sometimes referred to as portal systems.

=over 4

=item PHP-Nuke            

http://phpnuke.org/ (tested with 6.0)

=item PostNuke

http://postnuke.com/ (tested with 0.7.2.1 Phoenix)

=item PHPWebSite

http://phpwebsite.appstate.edu/ (tested with 0.8.3)

=item PHPWebThings

http://phpdbform.com/ (tested with 0.5test7)

=item Xoops

http://xoops.org/ (tested with RC3.0.5)

=item Geeklog

http://geeklog.sourceforge.net/ (tested with 1.3.6)

=back

=head2 Installing for PHP-Nuke, PostNuke, PHPWebSite or PHPWebThings

(Xoops users, see the Xoops section below.  Geeklog users, see the Geeklog
section below.)

Find the base install directory for your content management system.  Using
PHP-Nuke as an example, I'll assume that it's F</www/mysite.com/nuke>

Create a subdirectory called F<mig> (i.e. F</www/mysite.com/nuke/mig>).
Put all the files into that folder as described in the F<install> document,
except for the following changes.

=over 4

=item 1.

Instead of the templates that the F<install> document mentions, copy over
the two files in F<templates/portals>.  The HTML and CSS files Mig normally
uses are not used in PHP-Nuke mode.

=item 2.

Copy F<index.php> to your Nuke directory, not to the mig subdirectory.  And
call it F<mig.php>, not F<index.php>.  Make sure you rename it before you
move it, so you do not over-write your Nuke site's F<index.php> file.

=item 3.

Copy F<config.php.default> to F<config.php> in your Mig subdirectory, if
you don't already have one there.  Make sure you do not copy F<config.php>
into your Nuke directory, since Nuke has its own file called F<config.php>
and you must be careful not to destroy it!

=item 4.

Edit Mig's F<config.php> and set C<$phpNukeCompatible> to TRUE.  Change
C<$phpNukeRoot> to your Nuke directory (i.e.  F</www/mysite.com/nuke>) -
not the Mig directory, but your Nuke directory.

(If you're using phpWebThings, you want instead to use the options
C<$phpWebThingsCompatible> and C<$phpWebThingsRoot>).

=back

That should be it - http://yournukesite.com/mig.php should work.

PostNuke, PHPWebSite and PHPWebThings users can add Mig to their menus like
anything else, just giving F<mig.php> as the target to load.

PHP-Nuke users need a little more work to get their module in place due to
PHP-Nuke's module system.  In your modules directory, create a new module,
such as F<Photo_Gallery> and put this in a file called F<index.php> inside
the module directory:

    <?php
        $baseHref = ereg_replace('/modules.*$', '', $PHP_SELF);
        header("Location: http://$SERVER_NAME$baseHref/mig.php");
    ?>

Making sure there are no blank lines before the first line or after the
last line!  If you don't want to cut and paste or type that in, you can
find this code in the F<phpnuke_module.php> file in the F<mig-contrib>
package also (available in the C<Extras> section on the web site).

=head2 Installing for Xoops sites

To install on a Xoops site, find the base directory of your Xoops system.
Inside there should be a F<modules> subdirectory.  In that F<modules>
directory, create a F<mig> directory.

Install Mig in that F<mig> subdirectory according to the F<install>
document, with the following changes:

=over 4

=item 1.

Instead of the templates that the F<install> document mentions, copy over
the two files in F<templates/portals>.  The HTML and CSS files Mig normally
uses are not used in Xoops mode.

=item 2.

Copy the files in the F<xoops> directory over to the Mig directory on the
server.  Those files should be:

    xoops_version.php
    mig_logo.jpg
    language/english/index.html
    language/english/modinfo.php

The latter two should be modules/mig/languages/english/... (i.e. preserve
the folder structure when you copy / move the files).

=item 3.

Edit Mig's F<config.php> and set C<$mig_xoopsCompatible> to TRUE.
You may have to change C<$mig_xoopsRoot>, but the default should
work in most cases.  Optionally set C<$mig_xoopsRBlockForImage> and
C<$mig_xoopsRBlockForFolder> as you wish.

=item 4.

After that just go to the modules admin in Xoops and install the module.
The module is called "Photo Album".

=back

=head2 Installing for Geeklog sites

=over 4

=item 1.

Instead of the templates that the F<install> document mentions, copy over
the two files in F<templates/portals>.  The HTML and CSS files Mig normally
uses are not used in Geeklog mode.

=item 2.

Edit Mig's F<config.php> and set C<$mig_GeeklogCompatible> to TRUE.  Change
C<$mig_GeeklogRoot> to the base directory of your Geeklog installation.
Use the public docs directory, not the private admin directory.  Do not use
a trailing slash ("/").  Optionally set C<$mig_GeeklogRBlockForImage> and
C<$mig_GeeklogRBlockForFolder> as you wish.

=cut

